.TH fifo-groupings 1  "Jan 1, 2014" "version 0.1.23" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
fifo-groupings \- Grouping related commnads for the FiFo API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fifo groupings
[\-h] {metadata,list,get,delete,create,add,remove}

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program allows to manipulate, create and destroy groupings.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
displays a inline help.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
list [\-p] [\-H] [\-\-fmt FMT]
This command lists all groupings.

Valid choices for
.B FMT
are: uuid, name, type, elements and groupings.
.TP
get UUID
Reads the grouping with the given
.B UUID
from the database.
.TP
delete UUID
Deletes the grouping with the given
.B UUID
from the database.
.TP
create --type {stack,cluster} NAME
Creates a new grouping with
.B NAME
and marks it as a stack or cluster.
.TP
add STACK cluster CLUSTER
Adds a existing
.B CLUSTER
to the
.B STACK
given as first argument.
.TP
remove STACK cluster CLUSTER
Removes a
.B CLUSTER
to the
.B STACK
given as first argument.
.TP
remove CLUSTER vm VM
Removes a
.B VM
to the
.B CLUSTER
given as first argument.
.TP
groupings metadata <uuid> get
Reads the metadata.
.TP
groupings metadata <uuid> set <key> [\-\-json|\-j|\-\-integer|\-i|
\-\-float|\-f|\-\-string|\-s] <value>
Sets the metadata where
.B <key>
can be a nested period seperated JSON path. If no type is
specified the value will be treated as string.
.TP
groupings metadata <uuid> delete <key>
Deletes the
.B <key>
in the metadata. The
.B <key>
can be a nested period seperated JSON path.
.SH AUTHOR
Heinz N. 'Licenser' Gies (heinz (at) licenser.net)
.SH SEE ALSO
fifo(1), fifo-vms(1)
