.TH fifo-packages 1  "Jan 1, 2014" "version 0.1.22" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
fifo-packages \- Package related commnads for the FiFo API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fifo packages
[\-h] {metadata,list,get,delete,create}

.SH DESCRIPTION
This programm allows modifying, creating and creating packages.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
displays a inline help.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
packages list [\-p] [\-H] [\-\-fmt FMT]
This command lists the packages currently available on the server.

Valid choices for
.B FMT
are: uuid, name, title, quota and ram.
.TP
packages get <uuid|name>
This command returns the JSON representation of a package object stored
in the fifo server.
.TP
packages delete <uuid|name>
Deletes a package from the FiFo server. This does not affect VM's
currently using the package.
.TP
packages create <name>
                \-\-memory|\-m MEMORY[B|KB|MB|GB|TB|PB|EB]
                \-\-quota|\-q QUOTA[B|KB|MB|GB|TB|PB|EB]
                \-\-cpu_cap|\-c CAP
                \-\-requirement|\-r WIGHT ATTR COND VAL
                \-\-scale|\-s ATTR LOW HIGH
                \-\-random|\-R LOW HIGH
Creates a new package, memory, quota, cpu_cap and name are requried. In addition one or more requirement, scale, or random rule can be added.

.B \-\-requirement
rules are either enforced, forbidden or gives points to a hypervisor, they are used to rate and find the best hypervisor.

.B \-\-scale
rules help to give points to hypervisor based on their position in a linar scale over a given attirbute

.B \-\-random
rules just generate a random number of points for each hypervisor.

.B MEMORY
is given in bytes with optional modifyers of scale, please be aware that the minimal unit is 1MB.

.B QUOTA
is given in bytes with optional modifyers of scale, please be aware that the minimal unit is 1GB.

.B CAP
is the percentage of cpu cores, meaning 100 equals 1 core, 200 equals 2 cores, etc.

.B WIGHT
can be one of
.B must
,
.B cant
or am
.B integer
(either positive or negative).

.B ATTR
is a json path towards the attribute to look up, something like resources.free-memory

.B COND
is the compare condition one of >=, |>, =<, <, =:=, =/=, subset, superset, disjoint, element

.B VAL
is the value to compare against, it can either be a string or a number, currently arrays are not supported

.B LOW
and
.B HIGH
are integers where LOW < HIGH.

.TP
packages metadata <uuid> get
Reads the metadata.
.TP
packages metadata <uuid> set <key> [\-\-json|\-j|\-\-integer|\-i|
\-\-float|\-f|\-\-string|\-s] <value>
Sets the metadata where
.B <key>
can be a nested period seperated JSON path. If no type is
specified the value will be treated as string.
.TP
packages metadata <uuid> delete <key>
Deletes the
.B <key>
in the metadata. The
.B <key>
can be a nested period seperated JSON path.

.SH AUTHOR
Heinz N. 'Licenser' Gies (heinz (at) licenser.net)
.SH SEE ALSO
fifo(1)
