.TH fifo-hypervisors 1  "Jan 1, 2014" "version 0.1.29" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
fifo-hypervisors \- Hypervisor related commnads for the FiFo API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fifo hypervisors
[\-h] {metadata,list,get}

.SH DESCRIPTION
This programm allows modifying, creating and creating hypervisors.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
displays a inline help.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
hypervisors list [\-p] [\-H] [\-\-fmt FMT]
This command lists the roles currently available on the server.

Valid choices for
.B FMT
are: name, free, used, reserved, total, smartos, ip.

Where free, used, reserved and total stand for memory usage and smartos
represents the current SmartOS version running on the hypervisor.
.TP
hypervisors get <uuid|name>
This command returns the JSON representation of a hypervisor object
stored in the fifo server.
.TP
hypervisors delete <uuid>
Deletes the hypervisor from FiFo.
.TP
hypervisors path <uuid> [<name>:<cost> ...]
This sets the path of a hypervisor, it can have multiople name, cost pairs.
.TP
hypervisors metadata <uuid> get
Reads the metadata.
.TP
hypervisors metadata <uuid> set <key> [\-\-json|\-j|\-\-integer|\-i|
\-\-float|\-f|\-\-string|\-s] <value>
Sets the metadata where
.B <key>
can be a nested period seperated JSON path. If no type is
specified the value will be treated as string.
.TP
hypervisors metadata <uuid> delete <key>
Deletes the
.B <key>
in the metadata. The
.B <key>
can be a nested period seperated JSON path.

.SH AUTHOR
Heinz N. 'Licenser' Gies (heinz (at) licenser.net)

.SH SEE ALSO
fifo(1)
