.TH fifo-users 1  "Jan 1, 2014" "version 0.1.24" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
fifo-users \- User related commnads for the FiFo API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fifo users
[\-h] {metadata,list,get,delete,create,grant}

.SH DESCRIPTION
This programm allows modifying, creating and creating XXX.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
displays a inline help.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
users list [\-p] [\-H] [\-\-fmt FMT]
This command lists the users currently available on the server.

Valid choices for
.B FMT
are: uuid, name, roles.
.TP
users get <uuid|name>
This command returns the JSON representation of a user object stored
in the fifo server.
.TP
user delete <uuid|name>
Deletes a user from the FiFo server.

Please mind that roles will not be automatically removed from the
user. While this will not cause problems it might end up cluttering
the data base.
.TP
users create [\-p] [\-\-password|\-P PASS] [\-\-role|\-g ROLE] [\-\-organization|\-o ORG] NAME
Creates a new user and optionally sets the password, role and orgnaistation. If \-p is passed only the UUID is returned.
.TP
users grant USER PERM...
Grants a user a permission where.

.B USER
is the uuid of the user.

.B PERM
is one or more permission elements, i.e. cloud vms create
.TP
users metadata <uuid> get
Reads the metadata.
.TP
users metadata <uuid> set <key> [\-\-json|\-j|\-\-integer|\-i|
\-\-float|\-f|\-\-string|\-s] <value>
Sets the metadata where
.B <key>
can be a nested period seperated JSON path. If no type is
specified the value will be treated as string.
.TP
users metadata <uuid> delete <key>
Deletes the
.B <key>
in the metadata. The
.B <key>
can be a nested period seperated JSON path.
.SH AUTHOR
Heinz N. 'Licenser' Gies (heinz (at) licenser.net)
.SH SEE ALSO
fifo(1), fifo-orgs(1), fifo-roles(1)
