.TH fifo-datasets 1  "Jan 1, 2014" "version 0.2.4" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
fifo-datasets \- datasets related commnads for the FiFo API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fifo datasets
[\-h] {metadata,list,get,delete,create,add,remove}

.SH DESCRIPTION
This programm allows modifying, creating and creating datasets.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
displays a inline help.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
datasets list [\-p] [\-H] [\-\-fmt FMT]
This command lists the datasets currently available on the server.

Valid choices for
.B FMT
are: uuid, name, version, type and description.
.TP
datasets get <uuid|name>
This command returns the JSON representation of a dataset object
stored in the fifo server.

Where the name is combined from name-version (i.e. base64-1.9.1)
.TP
datasets delete <uuid|name>
Deletes a dataset from the FiFo server, also the linked image will
be removed from the database.
.B Be careful
this can't be undone!

No VM's running the dataset will be affected and the dataset will
.B NOT
be removed from the hypervisors.
.TP
datasets metadata <uuid> get
Reads the metadata.
.TP
datasets metadata <uuid> set <key> [\-\-json|\-j|\-\-integer|\-i|
\-\-float|\-f|\-\-string|\-s] <value>
Sets the metadata where
.B <key>
can be a nested period seperated JSON path. If no type is
specified the value will be treated as string.
.TP
datasets metadata <uuid> delete <key>
Deletes the
.B <key>
in the metadata. The
.B <key>
can be a nested period seperated JSON path.
.TP
datasets export <uuid> [\-\-out|\-o <file>]
Downloads the dataset
.B <uuid>
and writes it to
.B <file>.
If no file is given it will be written to
.B STDOUT
.TP
datasets import \-\-manifest|\-m MANIFEST \-\-dataset|\-d DATASET
Imports an dataset with a given
.B MANIFEST
and
.B DATASET

.SH AUTHOR
Heinz N. 'Licenser' Gies (heinz (at) licenser.net)

.SH SEE ALSO
fifo(1)
