.TH fifo-vms 1  "Jan 1, 2014" "version 0.1.20" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
fifo-vms \- VM related commnads for the FiFo API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B fifo vms
[\-h] {metadata,list,get,svcs,svcadm,delete,create,info,start,stop,reboot,snapshots,backups}

.SH DESCRIPTION
This program allows to mange, create and destroy FiFo VMs.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
displays a inline help.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
vms list [\-p] [\-H] [\-\-fmt FMT]
This command lists the users currently available on the server.

Valid choices for
.B FMT
are: uuid, alias, ip, state and hypervisor.
.TP
vms get <uuid|alias>
This command returns the JSON representation of a vm's configuration
as stored in teh Fifo server.

If multiple VM's with the same alias exist the first one found will
be returned, since there is no guaranteed order the result may vary.
.TP
vms info <uuid|alias>
This command gets the info section of the VM containing for example
VNC information (only applicable for KVM VMs).
.TP
vms delete <uuid|alias> [\-l]
Deletes a vm.

.B Beware
this can't be undone all data associated with this VM, along with
all of it's snapshots will be deleted forever!

If \-l is passed the vm is only deleted
from the hypervisor but not from the system and goes into a stored state.
.TP
vms metadata <uuid> get
Reads the metadata.
.TP
vms metadata <uuid> set <key> [\-\-json|\-j|\-\-integer|\-i|
\-\-float|\-f|\-\-string|\-s] <value>
Sets the metadata where
.B <key>
can be a nested period seperated JSON path. If no type is
specified the value will be treated as string.
.TP
vms metadata <uuid> delete <key>
Deletes the
.B <key>
in the metadata. The
.B <key>
can be a nested period seperated JSON path.
.TP
vms svcs [\-a] [\-p] [\-H] [\-j] <uuid|alias>
Returns the status of the SMF services on the zone, only really makes sense for
SmartOS zones and not for KVM machines since there is no visibility inside
the KVM.

\-a will list all servies even disabled ones.

\-p will print in a consumable tab seperated format.

\-H will supress the header being printed.

\-j will print the full JSON.
.TP
vms svcadm <uuid|alias> enable|disable|clear <service>
Changes toe state of <service> on the given vm <uuid>.
.TP
vms create \-\-package|\-p <package uuid|name> \-\-dataset|\-d <dataset uuid|name> [\-\-file|\-f <config json file>]
This commands creates a new VM on the FiFo system. Both <package uuid>
and <dataset uuid> have to be valid uuid's or names. If uuid's are passed
no checks are done on the client side.

If no config.json file is given as argument it is read from the
STDIN. Please see fifo-vmconfig(5) for details on the structure of
the file.
.TP
vms start <uuid|alias>
Starts the VM on the server, this will do no harm when the VM is
already in a running or booting state.
.TP
vms stop [\-f] <uuid|alias>
Stops a VM on the server, if the \-f option is given this is forced.
The command does no harm to already stopped VM's. Non the less the
\-f option can be
.B harmful
to programs running in the VM.
.TP
vm reboot [\-f] <uuid|alias>
.TP
Set the maximum speed to 8 speed cdrom:
Reboots a VM on the server, if the \-f option is given this is
forced. The command does no harm to already stopped VM's. Non the
less the \-f option can be
.B harmful
to programs running in the VM.
.TP
vms snapshots <vm uuid|alias> list [\-p] [\-H] [\-\-fmt FMT]
This command lists the snapshots registered for the given <vm uuid>.

Valid choices for
.B FMT
are: uuid, timestamp and comment.
.TP
vms snapshots <vm uuid> get <uuid|name>
This command returns the JSON representation of a snapshot configuration
as stored in teh FiFo server.
.TP
vms snapshots <vm uuid|alias> create "<comment>"
Creates a new snapshot of the <vm uuid>, it is advised to power down
the VM for this action even so it is technically working on running VM's
but might leave applications in a broken state.
.TP
vms snapshots <vm uuid|alias> delete <uuid|name>
Removes a snapshot from the hypervisor.
.TP
vms snapshots <vm uuid|alias> rollback <uuid>
Rolls back the state of a VM, the VM has to be powered off for this. Be
aware that all snapshots newer then <uuid> will be deleted as part of
this process.
.TP
vms backups <vm uuid|alias> list [\-p] [\-H] [\-\-fmt FMT]
This command lists the backups for for the given <vm uuid>.

Valid choices for
.B FMT
are: uuid, timestamp, parent, local, size and comment.
.TP
vms backups <vm uuid> get <uuid|name>
This command returns the JSON representation of a backup configuration
as stored in teh FiFo server.
.TP
vms backup <vm uuid|alias> create [\-d] [\-\-parent parent] [\-x] "<comment>"
Creates a new backup of the <vm uuid>, it is advised to power down
the VM for this action even so it is technically working on running VM's
but might leave applications in a broken state. By default a full backup
will be created this can be changed by passing the \-\-parent option with
the
.B uuid
of the parent snapshot.

If \-d is passed no local copy will be left on the hypervisor unless
\-\-parent is passed then the new snapshot is keeped but the parent is
deleted.

The \-x option will also upload the VM's .xml config file, this will
be used to recreate snapshots after total node failure.
.TP
vms backup <vm uuid|alias> delete [\-l] <uuid|name>
Removes the backup, if \-l is passed it will stay in the cloud storage
and only be removed form the hypervisor.
.TP
vms backup <vm uuid|alias> restore [\-\-hypervisor <hypervisor>] <uuid>
Restores the backup, trying to find the quickeset way to restore using
combinations of local, full an incremental backups.

If \-\-hypervisor is passed the VM is restored onto a specific hypervisor.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Lists all VM's in parsable format:
.B fifo
vms list \-p \-H
.PP
.TP
Restore maximum speed:
.B fifo
vms create
\-\-package 6fbe6997-e662-4235-b878-3bea5d05d9f5
\-\-dataset cf7e2f40-9276-11e2-af9a-0bad2233fb0b
\-\-config example.json
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
Heinz N. 'Licenser' Gies (heinz (at) licenser.net)
.SH SEE ALSO
fifo(1), fifo-vmconfig(5)
